it's the question that everyone wants an
answer to what is the secret to
extraordinary success is it grit
the determination luck or is it who you
know I've been in business now for some
thirty years and I can tell you all
successful entrepreneurs share a few
unique qualities
certain traits that give them the upper
hand but what are they and can they be
learned I'm on a mission to find out
what drives Britain's best entrepreneurs
this is it this is it
I don't like something not being as good
as it can be
would you die for your brand almost it
and uncover the human side that
determines their success or failure
they're driven by self-doubt maybe it
was all that billion heartache I want
them to reveal their individual recipes
for success
you definitely are a hippie with a
calculator you are quite molecular t'v
so I can discover just how they made
their Millions
if these guys haven't sold this business
to me you guys wouldn't know what hit
you mess with me I'm gonna turn into
stone you take a hundred million pound
check for your share now you
success in business isn't a fine science
I've turned tiny startups into
multimillion-pound companies not all of
my ventures have succeeded business is
tough but I've always believed there are
certain factors that can give us all a
fighting chance
I'm on a journey to get inside the minds
of two of the country's top
businesspeople and I'm hoping to
discover the ways in which the most
unlikely characters become multi
millionaires I'll be spending time with
richard reid founder of a smoothie
company with a hundred and sixty-five
million pound turnover a michelle moan
the self-made inspiration behind a
multi-million pound lingerie business
and who according to the rich list is
worth 50 million pounds have they both
followed the same blueprint to success
or is it their difference that matters
most my journey begins at fruit towers
in west london the home of the most
successful smoothie company in the UK
and its co-founder richard reid other
ties offer that the doors are how are
you good you're going very have you seen
the different to the way that you
trouble yeah but i must do a grass
kivett bands and you're this i want to
be in the grass cover band yeah let's go
for action it dances it's got hydraulic
so fat meters around and you can blare
out music for those speakers at the
front we take it to festivals go out
sampling with it and a lot of my people
have met their partners through it as
well richard is leading a new wave of
entrepreneur who have embraced a
business style pioneered in the US by
companies like google
he believes that if his employees feel
at home there'll be extra productive and
despite opting for an open collar I
still felt overdressed it almost doesn't
look like a working environment that
looks nice and looking like a London
play center
no but it kind of hits the most
important thing is first of all have a
smoothie Neri so this is the sort of
chill-out area it's basically a big
communal area for people to come in for
informal meetings what's that oh we call
this thing that's through the Wheel of
Fortune so sometimes if we can't make a
decision we'll put all the different
options on here and then spin it and let
the sweetie Wheel of Fortune decide look
you put your ideas in here yeah that's
me the other one it turns to someone
that lives are you here for you make
business decisions on a wheel of fortune
not for like big decisions but when
you've got a few different options as a
bit of fun it's got sort of like a home
feel like this the it's your kitchen
yeah and then you've got people more
sitting rooms you let people wear
whatever they want to wear yeah no and
that's the point if you want to wear a
suit you extremely welcome to wear a
suit but you look we don't we don't tell
people
you look a bit like me now would you I
feel now as if I've come into a business
environment for the first time and I'm
completely out of place well I have to
say I probably come into premier because
you would never judge we would never
judge someone on what they wore that's
just we're not it's not that type of
vibe you gotta wear what you're most
comfortable is you can do your best work
I've literally seen one person's sat at
his desk in his dressing gown no even
that was slightly pushing the sort of
the limits of what you can wear about
the office against dress again he said
he was cold yeah
after reading geography at Cambridge
Richard set up the fruit juice company
in 1999 with fellow graduates John
Wright and Adam Balan we have a little
house space which is if you're 70
percent sure then go for it don't wait
around trying to be a hundred percent
confidence the right decision
I've had the very rare privilege I think
to have spent the last 12 years doing
something that I found to be incredibly
exciting and interesting and
mind-expanding and life enhancing and
doing it with my two closest friends
though who what's going to make some
smoothies today Richard sells over two
million bottles of smoothies a week but
they're expanding their range moving
into ready meals and taking on the
Giants of the orange juice market
it's about being natural natural
ingredients making natural food but also
the the idea of being natural talking
naturally acting naturally people can
come in the work it instantly their
natural selves at work each day Kimberly
is joining us as our new purchase ledger
specialist so you can make the sound
with dolphin we won't hide behind some
sort of weird corporate facade we'll
just be who we are
it's always good to be exactly who you
are as long as you realize that running
a business is about making money and I
wanted to find out if Richard had the
money-making gene when did you actually
feel think to yourself you know what I'm
an entrepreneur it was I was 16 and I
was working in a dog biscuit factory in
his field and my job paid two pounds an
hour and the task I was assigned to get
down on my hands and knees and pick up
the dog biscuits off the factory floor
that fallen off the conveyor belt so I
went up to the foreman and said do you
have a brush I could borrow that you had
to brush it I could buy I could do this
job better and he's looked to me dead in
the eyes I said son you are the brush
and I thought that that is the split
second I decided you know what there has
got to be a better way than this so I
left the dog biscuit factory that
afternoon went home and set of a little
business called two men went to moan
which was just mowing lawns in the
village where I grew up and before I
knew I'm building myself out at two
pounds fifty an hour and getting so much
work that I could actually give jobs to
my mates I've build them out to 50 now
pay them 225 an hour so made a little
bit extra there if you don't like the
situation then go about changing it
rather than complaining about it having
the confidence to change what you don't
like is an entrepreneurial trait I
recognise but was this Cambridge
graduate helped by having a privileged
upbringing
I'm from Huddersfield in the north of
England my dad started as a bus
conductor and works his way
we can manager in the local bus company
my mum was a nurse
my mum dad decided they wanted to go
bribe education that was funded by my
mum going out and working night so she'd
worked two nights a week my parents mean
massive sacrifices for us as kids
what was your school life like first
year I came 44th out of 45 in my class
in the exams right so one from the
bottom
you know I think something clicked with
me and I worked harder next year if I
came 17th and I member going home to
sort of say you know really pleasing
self I came 17 so my mum just said I
think you can do better than that and I
remember thinking wow so you think from
that one defining moment that was the
self belief injection that your mum gave
you
I think it's lucky you I think it made
me recalibrate yeah I think it made me
think oh that felt pretty good but then
it was like I will actually you know
better yeah you can do better you can do
better and you did yeah and almost the
rest is history
yeah to truly uncover why richard has
become so successful I needed the
answers to some uncomfortable business
questions but that would have to wait
first I've got an appointment with an
entrepreneur who is poles apart from
Richard Reid
the next stop of my journey is East
Kilbride where I'm meeting Michelle Mon
the tycoon behind one of the country's
leading lingerie labels I wonder what
her corporate headquarters might reveal
about her particular approach to
business hello hello I want you fine how
are you very good nice to see you well
thank you very much welcome Ian this is
our Scottish headquarters and we've got
Hong Kong and we've get China as well
and I wanted to shit like a blessed so
you know in the breast of the building
and when we go upstairs you'll see
you're not honestly you're not winding
me up
this is no ideal it's real yeah and it's
kind of shaped like a double D so there
you go so this is the worst yeah this
looks far too staged for me you can't be
all tidy workers this is how we run
things and if you look any any cupboards
that you want to look in there we'll all
be organized what even the cupboard yeah
they've all got to be organized shit I
use cupboards in my office to hide
things is it really like this for real
it all felt too good to be true was this
an act just for me and then in here is a
meeting room graphics as well but as
Michelle showed me around I knew there
was one particular member of staff who
could help me learn more the one
employee who knows everything about
their boss the PA shall we go and meet
Laura Laura hi there I'm eat pizza
what's it like working for Michelle yeah
it's very it's very different from any
bit of work before it's stressful at
times but all in all good
what's the hardest thing working for a
busy big successful entrepreneur and you
shall swear perfectionist you can plan
one thing and within 10 minutes she
wants it completely different she's just
like so she changes her mind a lot oh
yeah yeah I'm not scared of change
annoys people are dangerous they've been
working on it for so long but I know
everything about Michelle so have to be
one step ahead of her
no more scares you have ever sure as a
boss I can tell when Michelle's and not
the best of moods I call it the Care
Bear stare because she may look at you
necessary with him but she can look in
your like oh no do you think you're paid
enough yes
I'm looked after can you not see that
Sports ad Sports Khairy out there but
yeah yes that's a lot after the job cuz
I don't really look after your team cuz
II look after you Michelle's gel-filled
bra became an overnight success in the
year 2000 after Julia Roberts wore one
in the film Erin Brokovich
well you know I'm just a nice thing get
off from the extended Glasgow and always
had a dream
Dalton was now one of the biggest
laundry brands in the country
after leaving school without
qualifications she has risen to take on
the biggest laundry brands in the world
what we doing here were capturing the
market for people who want an everyday
bra Michele is a mom of three juggling
family life and business commitments
from day one I do believe that we will
become the Victoria Secrets of the Yuki
Michele knows how to manipulate the
press as she does everything she can to
keep her brand and has celebrity persona
in the public eye I am very demanding
I'm a perfectionist and it's illegal in
this room no yeah sorry it's just not
ultimately I'm impatient and I always
want the best I think I'm a nightmare
you expect quite a lot I think well I
think that but why we are where we are
yeah and this very very competitive
market who's the last person to get
psyched and well when was it this
morning no it's a couple of weeks ago
couple of weeks I went CSAT though we
just heard the negative man okay okay
I'm gonna find out a little bit more
about this lady Michele comes across as
a demanding leader
upfront hours the business environment
that Richard and his co-founders have
encouraged couldn't be more different
where's your office in this I don't have
an office sir we were completely open
plan to no one has obviously as I just
said open the corner this is yours area
here yes I sit in just in this desk here
now I'm sitting here I can see you say
that though I've Johnny come and take a
seat up to me well we have this as well
so you can pull out everyone's filing
cabinet as them you can sit on because
again we just want to keep it as easy as
possible for people to speak into to
each other rather than rely on email and
phone calls we were big fans of going as
much face to face as possible so other
than with Abigail takes you seriously
yes sitting there swinging a chip a bit
it's like it's a bit sort of split
strangers now well I don't think you
cite diversity sitting there in a swing
huh do they sit in there and swing and
talk to you and Richard you're down
today I guess I wouldn't have judged
people on the seat that they sit on I
judge no no I'm just late very
distracting right I totally want to be
accessible and have people if they've
got something they just want to ask
quickly we're not sort of putting walls
up between each other I couldn't stop
thinking about dressing down someone for
not performing whilst they sat swinging
a basket like Little Miss Muffet but I
was trying to keep an open mind about
the way Richard runs the organisation
good afternoon creative team hello hi
I'm Peter if you can call it organized
so what's it like working here do I find
it odd working on an astroturf and nice
pretty get pretty used to it
no thank you wouldn't you tidy up a bit
no this this corner especially can't be
tiling really yeah I don't think so
because that's we're working it's a good
working environment than to work in
chaos a mess yes a slight you know
controlled chaos if these guys have sold
this business to me odd you guys
wouldn't know what hit you I think Peter
finds it a bit too untidy
really your visa I've won it bit edgy
which I it doesn't surprise me so now
I'm seeing guys with you know that
address very differently with respect I
would never let my staff turn up to work
like this but something's working
Richards grown from nothing to having a
75% share of the smoothie market people
work harder here than they will do
ninety-nine percent of businesses people
put in a huge amount of energy personal
commitment take it very very seriously
it's just because we're sort of wearing
t-shirts as mean we're not working
really hard
is he really hard taskmaster on plus
side is incredibly inspirational it's
incredibly honest he'll tell you when
something's rubbish and when something's
great really quickly which helps it's
probably gets really excited sometimes
and a bit carried away and might change
his mind about stuff he's always like
thinking lots of things in his head
and he walks out of meetings which I I
didn't know it was true but they told me
he had a reputation that that's it I
know and then he goes out you're like
okay really yeah you like you'll join
this I'm good I'm so glad you say I'm so
better come to your office with a camera
Kevin and ask you all guys what they
think about you she's great as you see
you know beneath what seems like chaos I
was starting to see how Richard inspires
his staff to work hard for him up in
Glasgow I had an inkling that Michelle
Mon takes a much more traditional and
orderly approach okay so this is my room
Wow it's like a hotel room I have never
seen post-it notes so evenly spread and
so perfectly placed yep massive OCD
yep I've had that for years since I've
this child that's exactly how I run my
life I get four hours sleep a night like
Maggie Thatcher then four hours sleep
that's what people say are you the Iron
Lady of Brora knickers I did maybe my
husband says get that bloody BlackBerry
out of this bedroom house where was your
partner in the business yes he's been
there from the start he's seen it grow
yep he doesn't like the limelight I told
and people think that it's just old me
but actually you know he's mentioned
today too and very talented at what he
does as well he's very much involved in
business yeah very much so but whilst
our husband keeps a low profile this
tactical publicist is out there mixing
it with the rich and famous but it's not
just for fun partnering with
good-looking celebrities is all part of
her PR strategy so these are all of your
girls are they for a selection of yeah
selection of not all of them
all right I recognize you've got Rachel
Hunter Rachel Hunter penny Lancaster
Helena Christensen Sarah harden Mel be
in the list goes on and on and on Wow
in 2003 Michele hit the publicity
jackpot when she dropped Rod Stewart's
girlfriend penny Lancaster and replaced
her with Rachel Hunter his ex-wife was
it a tactical move to get a many on
board well that works with two penny for
two years and yes we became close and
everything else and but things just went
just things changed
it went on for months and months and
months but you know I really did affect
me personally how much of that was a
turning point for your business in a
positive way massive because it was
worldwide
chase for the brand it's the Richard
Branson school of PR create a
multimillion-pound business and use the
popular press as free advertising for it
what does that wallpaper
yeah it's wallpaper uh-huh I thought it
would be quite a nice idea to turn one
more into wallpaper
yeah Michelle moan that's it for my OB
Michelle burn yeah anymore
sure will lets me out with Welby that's
New York Fashion Week
male mission yeah what's that one paint
Asst yeah hello magazine Michelle Oh
slim damage yeah
oh my goodness there Michelle wall
there's a story board here yes one wall
tells a story yeah you mm-hmm
probably I mean when I was really
overweight you know I put on six and a
half stone when I went through all the
hard times building the company and when
put my house up to the bank three times
security and piled on the weight and no
as I pictured up there we finally lost
six to one would you die for your brand
oh I strove I've got kids
but it's good that's weird when I tell
you the story about how we almost M went
bust em are almost
I will go from here to hell for ultima
and the race for bandit
Michelle seems like an uncompromising
boss but to fully understand how she
became a force in the laundry business I
needed to hear how it all began
thought one day of starting a company
yeah I got made redundant went to Donna
dance one night we are now very
uncomfortable cleavage Brian went back
to the table drunk and said I'm going to
invent a bra that's how it happened you
and the three years I worked from my
bedroom got into day of 240,000 pounds
beg to rob meanwhile my husband just you
know kept saying i was nuts.i went to
the launch in London and we had surgeons
well actors dress the surgeons I dress
them all up this plastic surgeon scene
ban the altima bra and they go so much
press coverage and the police came up
and said who's responsible for this I
said me and he says well move right now
we're gonna arrest you I said I'll give
him what for busted arrest me so you
recognized at that point that your
business for it to be successful was
based around publicity I had no money I
had no money for advertising she's come
to get in and I in our industry where
some of the big launch new brands would
spend two million pounds launching a
product I had 500 pounds left 4% fibers
yeah you very much strike me as all or
nothing running this business and
building this business has probably
taken a lot away from my life but it is
my life I'm starting to see two sides to
Michelle now that started to come out
for me the one that actually would take
care of you and nurture and look after
and the one that says if you mess with
me I'm going to turn into stone
and it's that L yeah and it's
interesting seeing that psyche because
I'm almost like the Silent Assassin
that's not something to be played on no
but in an interesting way because you're
driving your business and taking it
really forward nothing is going to stop
yeah it's fair but for me there's M does
one thing that if you brake with me you
never really get back and that's trust
self belief is a key trait in all
successful entrepreneurs a Michele has
certainly seen off some challenging
times back in West London I wondered if
the reason Richard Reid always seems to
be smiling is because his route to
success had been a much easier ride
helpfully he's decorated the stairs with
a brief company history business
starting to gallop the bigger and we
start doing our dancing grass fans this
is our recipe Berkeley publishes the
success Richard found in the early years
of his business was based on an unlikely
model it seems like they were more
focused on giving money away than
actually making it this is fruit stock
which is a festival that we did in
Regent's Park was free to go - we did it
- thank you to all our drinkers we give
10% of our profits to charity each year
mainly to I think all the innocent
Foundation which is in countries in the
developing world where the food comes
from
but spreading goodwill is only possible
when you're making a profit right now
we're up to 2008 which is your it's
definitely the annus horribilis perfect
innocent after four years of seamless
growth Richard had to face the harsh
realities of running a multi-million
pound business a new competitor launched
the pound crashed and fruit prices
rocketed almost spelling the end we
haven't put our prices up once in ten
years and secondly a big competitor
launched against and took a large part
of our market share which meant that we
lost a huge amount of money in fact some
what did you lose oh it was it like it's
in the millions and it was more we lost
more in that year of 2008 and we made in
the entire company's history so it wiped
out any profits that we we've been
making he had a tough decision to make
drastically downsized the operation or
sell a stake in the business
relief came in the unlikely form of
coca-cola yes these guys invested in
early 2009 in a way that's just been
it's been building for the businesses
myself Adam and John have retained full
control of the business and as you can
see where we're continue to do business
in a very innocent way I'm sure we're
going to talk more about that yeah no
absolutely absolutely
I was surprised that a business focused
on health and charity sought a
partnership with one of the biggest
corporate names in the fizzy drinks
market
but before I challenged him about it I
needed to get a more precise picture of
Richard and his business - Richard
what's happening in there so this is our
commercial team we test the adverts - we
want to make sure they work and this is
you test the Abbott in advance to see
how does it score people do they like it
do they remember it do they relate it to
innocent and so you can you can judge
before you spend all your money on media
which is going to be the ad that people
like the most and that's essentially
what those different scores are testings
are quite serious stuff happening in
this room yes absolute we do take things
seriously
fruit towers is an interesting
contradiction at first you walk through
the doors and think you've entered Willy
Wonka's chocolate factory which you want
to cut anything up I like watching
pieces but as I was joining in the fun
in the juice lab I was starting to see
where the genius of this business lay
behind the astroturf and the lunchtime
barbecues there's a hierarchy that
demands the very best from its people
the front-of-house is very much hey guys
come and have fun we got grass we've got
table tennis tables we've got a lovely
environment for you to work in it was
very intriguing walking past that office
where I saw clearly some quite serious
behind the scenes real planning going on
it's not a contradiction it's all part
of the same whole we want to take the
bits seriously that you need to take
seriously but we don't take ourselves
seriously in the process of it one of
your stuff it was early herbs that you
walk out of meetings you have a short
attention span in terms of right look I
need to move on you're quite random in
your decisions and you quite seemingly
changeable I like change
I like the future I like you know things
to evolve am i indecisive I don't I
don't like something not being as good
as it can be and I don't like someone -
you're a perfectionist then I think it's
one of my drivers yeah I think that in
to the extent where I do know it can
cause chaos at the last minute by me
sort of going well how about that time I
have sort of learnt over the last couple
years the moderator a little bit better
richard is a clever an unconventional
entrepreneur who believes he can make
money by focusing on a mission but
surely without profit there is no
mission if your arms and speak to lots
of entrepreneurs all up and down the
country and you say to them what is your
main objective well their main objective
would be to generate income and make
profit see I don't agree and that's not
your objective at all I don't agree I
think in my experience when you look at
the world's greatest businesses they are
led primarily by a deeply felt sense
submission and money is fairly
incidental like 2008 we got it wrong
okay we made a mistake the market moved
against us and we weren't prepared for
its course the money is part of it I
don't want to be disingenuous imply that
it's not I'm hoping that you know I will
become wealthy from from innocence and
for that I'll be both appreciative and
grateful I think the world's greatest
businesses are led by a sense of mission
and purpose Google you set up in the
same month the same users and have grown
at the same time to be an 80 billion
dollar company so in in some ways you
can say that beating is they talk about
in one sentence that they exist to
organize the world's information and
make it universally available that's a
simple clear mission and it explains
what their business is all about and
that's what innocence led by
my journey has really just begun but I
was already discovering that an
entrepreneurs business is very much a
reflection of who they are as people
Michele mone is incredibly tenacious but
I wondered where her relentless drive
had come from and if her formula for
success could last forever
at first glance richard reads approach
appears counterintuitive concentrating
on the good his brand can achieve rather
than the profit but we've also heard
from his childhood just how calculating
he can be most successful businessman
and women i know can pinpoint exactly
where and when their entrepreneurial
journey began to find out where that was
for Richard and Michelle I'm visiting
places that lie on opposite ends of the
country and of the social spectrum
Michelle is taking me on a tour of our
hometown of Galla gate you're getting
into the East End of Glasgow really
don't tear hard-working
and Richard is showing me round
Cambridge the city where his
entrepreneurial journey began in Glasgow
I was to find the rags to riches cliche
for real lots and lots of memories
growing up here and this is where I
started my first name business when I
was dead 10 years old you were 10 yeah
in the papers in the East End and then
when I was 11 I had 17 teenagers working
for me and so you had a bunch of people
working for you at 11:00 attached here
the first stop would be Michelle's
secondary school a place she left
without any qualifications at the age of
this is it this is it yeah
this was where she was told that a
future working down the local
supermarket was the best she could
expect
Wow how's it was it feel like to be back
here really strange was it yeah but em
what's your best memory yeah
my best memory and I don't really have
nice memories to be honest with you I
really struggled at school academically
I was awful
um and I think always been told you know
you're a failure and you'll never do
well and I suppose everyone around me
kept seeing Michelle you can't do this
and you can't do that and you see why
why did you see you can't surely you can
surely we can find a way and I used to
challenge everyone really bullied and
kind of yeah I'm always a bit and yeah
because I wore my uniform and she we
always thought always nope yeah wear
your uniform and what about your
teachers did they have a little inkling
that Michelle Mohan was going to become
a successful entrepreneur I don't think
so I remember when I was 15 I had to go
and see my clears teacher says I want to
be an entrepreneur and she said what
does that mean
it could have been a determination to
prove her teachers wrong that drove
Michelle in those early days
but I was about to discover even deeper
reasons for her desire to be an East End
girl done good I always wanted my own
room and my dad cut half of a single bed
he put in the room cupboards and lorn to
ceiling and up it's sticky
they're stickers which were all stars
above it and I loved it so much the next
stop on our tour was the house Michelle
grew up in
so this is it yeah so which was the
actual house which one and well first of
all I grew up here one not so first
floor just first floor yeah and then my
dad's and when he was my age got
confined to a wheelchair the paralyzed
from the waist down a disease hemangioma
what this was no spinal cords so he
couldn't obviously get up the stairs no
meal chair so we moved to 54 ground rate
just whoo and that was a first time I
had my own bedroom wow this is 54 yeah
that's that was my mom and dad's bedroom
I I dare you to ring the bell I knew I
can't do that Henderson you're mean it's
going to oh what's that she's like whoo
I promise I've not to do anything up hey
huh hi there
come on is that okay yeah oh my goodness
oh wow I can't believe this is my old
house and that that is the bathroom
isn't it as a bathroom as your room that
was your the madness my room oh this is
my water you know I love this bedroom
this was my first bedroom bedroom and I
kept to sue neat and tidy
from this tenement Michelle embarked on
a career in publicity that began with
occasional work as a model by the age of
she was head of marketing for a national
brewery her old neighbor Trisha still
lives next door and has documented her
remarkable rise to success the show
you've got pictures
I've actually got people cuttings as
well but didn't it look at that
terrible terrible model terrible Maria
she won't talk to me is quiet
thank you very much approves anybody
that's got a dream and if they'll follow
it through I can do it
that's true Michelle was just basically
what enticed and she done it all played
I could see in Michelle's eyes how much
this visit to our old house meant but
facing up to her past wasn't going to be
easy
over dinner I wanted to find out more
look earliest bad memory here
I would say that there was lots of tough
times that I try and blank out and that
was the illness of my dad that was my
mum you know going through depression
losing my wee brother you know I always
used to go to bed crying I'm not going
my dad in the morning and it was just it
was horrible then I won't be you when
your brother done and I was about 8
years old yeah I don't mean but all of
it
you do every single bit of it yeah you
come from a card background you've spent
all of your life trying to get out
here's something that makes Michelle
special
do you see yourself especially
would you see yourself as lucky good you
know bad news after bad news and I don't
want that I will not accept when people
see because you're from the East End you
cannot be successful in contrast the
hard work of Richard's parents to fund
his private education paid off he became
one of the elite few to make it to some
John's College Cambridge so we have been
in here for 20 years he shared a room
with Adam Balan and John Wright together
they would become the cofounders of the
famous smoothie brand so this is a
canteen yeah yes the innocent canteen
three meals a day for three years here
pretty much here is nice dinner and yeah
this is definitely where it started
because the the three became friends
Richard from the first night in college
we all met in the college bar and I
think we saw bond didn't we ever loveth
you know photos yeah exactly and what
did you do because I needed geography
didn't it mm-hmm was it because you
couldn't think of anything else to all
the honest answer is when I was looking
at the different the different options
the only topic that had less lectures
was land economy which had seven hours a
week and trouble he had eight hours a
week and everything else had more and so
I went the job okay so what economics oh
wow okay I did manufacturing same gang
stuff made it's almost like perfect
doesn't it you got somebody that
economics knows how to run a business
you got something that season really
care watch they did because just what
he'd have fun I've got somebody that
actually knows the whole manufacturing
process to put all together unless
that's interesting though isn't it cuz
it does fit and we weren't here was that
it was a lucky fortunate in a part
performer what you had here was three
really close friends that had very
different skills but had a complete
shared sort of set of values and vision
and things that they wanted to achieve
and that's I think that was the
the starting place for the whole
business where the successes come from
it's incredibly rare that three mates
thrown together at university go on to
create a multimillion-pound business to
try and work out just how it happened
the boys took me to meet Colin their
residential Porter so they were
pranksters then they enjoy their college
life a there's a soda kind of Porter's
on the toes all the toilet but the pool
has allowed them atomic autumn they all
said we're innocent yes Richard business
story begins here in Cambridge in a
darkened dingy basement well this is it
yes that's an underground garage yes
it's likely the enterprising trio
transformed this boiler room into the
most popular student nightclub for miles
around we'd be turning people away at
the door I think neat people were coming
for the free pizza not news
hello is er that was a dreadful
Aboriginal strategy that we were off a
tree piece at nine o'clock sure I get
people down early and what happened is
loaded we've always turned up eight the
free pizza then left and so we were left
with an empty nightclub and for a peanut
boxes this is where it all started I've
had a lot of fun why you did it yeah
absolutely
and that doesn't that doesn't seem to
change much no it's thin Ferg it's just
one of the best bits of uni doing with
your two closest mates oh it's just such
good fun
both Richard and Michelle wanted to
create better futures for themselves
because of the circumstances that
surrounded them
Richard desperately wanted to make his
parents proud and repay the sacrifices
they had made to give him a world-class
education a michelle was driven by
desire to do better than those around
her oh how nice is that
so what is it that links all
entrepreneurs is there a formula for
making millions if you ask the investors
who discovered Michelle and Richard it
wasn't their business plans that impress
them
bors Pinto bought 18 percent of
innocent for a quarter of a million
pounds I take care less about what the
business in the industry is or what the
business ideas and more about the people
I thought they were extremely bright
extremely articulate let me say it's the
best management team I've ever worked
with Sir Tom Hunter backed Ultimo with a
hundred thousand pounds
you can look at the business plan you
can look at the numbers and you know
you've read as many business plans as me
and none of them really do what they
ever say they're going to do you're
really only investing in the person we
saw something in Michelle that
determination that would can and and her
I've and you then you then make an
investment and the parents
it's reported that both investors made
very healthy returns when they sold
their shares in London Scotland's first
billionaire was giving me a further
insight into what has pushed Michele
mone to succeed even though Michele puts
forward this you know she can be quite
fragile and then the thing people don't
understand that most entrepreneurs is
that we are driven by self-doubt a lot
of successful people who outwardly you
think are so confident but we're all
trying to prove ourselves all the time
yeah
for my final encounter Michelle had
invited me to her Mayfair apartment so I
could have a glimpse into her private
world it was here I hope to uncover the
characteristics that have brought her
success
hello hello who are you why are you but
nothing could have prepared me for the
obsessive attention to detail that
awaited okay can you come look at that
that's amazing
everything has its place that shouldn't
be dirty is it no everything has to be
organized so everything's in order
five twenty fifty yeah same hangers yeah
every single one the same color
everything has to be the same and the
kids I've got KP is that they don't mock
the hangers up and you give you a kid
not going to tell you guys KPIs key
performance indicators which are
business drivers yeah to measure against
for success you do that with your own
kids and the people no sure I do if your
drawers are not organized and your
cupboards are not organized your family
are not organized then your life is a
maze you have to compartmentalize
everything in your life and you don't
change between business and your
personal life which is different a lot
of people e yeah a lot of people were
very different in business today are
when they're at home
to be successful you have to be able to
exert control but Michele takes it to
another level there must be a reason why
she has to organize every detail around
her and the words of Tom hunter were
still ringing in my ears
is it self doubt that makes her like
this
are you proud of yourself I think no I
think no that I've lost you know all the
weights and I'm getting fit you know I'm
getting my life in order and I was
punishing myself for 10 years and I just
kept eating and eating and eating and
eating because I did not feel that I
should have money and success but I'm I
feel I'm a lot more content but I still
don't think I've made it yet so would
you say that you're lonely or in search
of something and I'm not sure maybe
you're doing these things to perhaps
fill a void or fill something as being a
entrepreneur is very lonely you'll know
it yourself and where you know you'll
take all the worry and everything else
on your own shoulders and um do you feel
pressure oh I feel pressure 24/7 yeah
and I can't imagine life without the
pleasure to be honest I'm trying to
understand the psyche behind an
entrepreneur there's a lot of
similarities I see in me and you mm-hmm
I see that you have to have to control I
can see that you are quite manipulative
I can see that you're very forthright
you know where you want to get to but at
the same time I can also see a lot of
insecurity when I was last in your
offices you said something to me that we
hit me quite hard because I've never
spoken to another entrepreneur before
that's actually said yeah I consider
committing suicide and I was in a very
dark place in my life yeah how take me
back to that time of how you felt to get
to that point
I just think that I tried my hardest and
I suppose I was feeling and who are you
looking down
I was letting down my family you know
and it's the fear of going back to how I
grew up of I suppose struggling I am but
I just thought I just could not see our
way out I just couldn't when he took me
about to the East End of Glasgow there
was a quite a touching moment when I got
to see the neighbors you got to see your
house hmm but there's a lot about it
that almost says I can't remember a lot
of things I'm not I'm blanking it all
out but I suppose that you know that
growing up and with my wee brother dying
and my father you know been confined to
a wheelchair at the age of 38 and I just
thought well you know and I started to
all come back to me
oh dear I said I ain't cryin and but
maybe it was all that just billion and
heartache it's made me fight to get to
here I'm so sorry
don't apologize because it's something
to be proud of and it gives a lot of
people inspiration and the reality is
that an entrepreneur is a a make up of
all different things you've been through
a journey haven't you yes and I think
that everybody sees that journey is easy
it's glamorous we see Michelle walking
down red carpets we see on magazines
looking beautiful
but the hardness and the hardships of
the journey
and I would say that the next few years
in pursuit of happiness and success I
think you're going to achieve it thank
you
I really do hope so
uncovering the reason why someone
strives for perfection can be an
emotional experience I wondered if my
final meeting with Richard would be so
highly charged I'm in the Mulvane hills
to examine the relationship between
Richard and one of his suppliers to
hopefully uncover the savvy businessman
behind the self-proclaimed hippie brand
there's nothing hippie allowed in me
nothing hello well hello although I've
never been a fly on the wall at a
meeting he does not suffer fools lightly
where's the suit what do you think
pretty good red and green yeah that
matching we've got planned this who are
you now going to use Edie Edward so now
the most treasured dramas so this is all
they're all blackcurrants that we see
now yeah Wow we've been working together
for a while
mmm we started in 2004 that was officer
sure that we and we did we bought less
than a ton of heads blackcurrants
where's this year which was bought 210
tons
what I was really interested in was how
Richard and Ed made money from each
other
it can't be cheap buying homegrown fruit
and I was keen to find out about their
margins probably for the first time in
history our price to you per Brix is
lower than our price to the concentrate
people per Prix a doubt if that's ever
happened before that's a decision on our
part so the prices have gone up but we
want these guys to be there tomorrow
so interesting concept here written is
business is supporting local farmer
local farmer actually in reality is
supporting Richard yes you've got a very
interesting partnership between the two
of you yes correct and we I think we
both share this philosophy that we will
do better over the longer term by
collaborating it is a mutually
beneficial relationship but that's the
key it's not better fed he's financially
willing to lower the price of that
quality product to you to support your
model well I think we should let ed say
what everything well the black currant
market is sometimes referred to as being
the the peak of the software industry it
is very cyclical and to always insist on
the jackpot in the peak here is not
necessarily good business they can take
the product off the shelf tomorrow yeah
you can price itself off the shelf we
want that product to still be there
Richard looked uncomfortable discussing
profit margins with a price supplier I
was relieved to discover that he does
focus on a money-making model after all
without profit he can't give to charity
the clever thing is the farmer has
bought into Richards mission and that's
the very reason why he offers such a
great deal now that's a shrewd way of
doing business you have naturally found
a place where you can really represent
your brand by creating and maintaining
an image and everybody's thinking oh
this guy why doesn't everybody be like
Richard you know he starts a business
he's got high ethics he's helping the
local community and he gives away to
charity but the reality is you are all
of those things but you're also a very
tactical very shrewd entrepreneur as
well I take that as a big compliment
there's no money to give to charity if
you don't make any money in the first
place so we are absolutely proud to be
entrepreneurs and businessmen and
capitalists and we have an altruistic
aim in addition to that as well I tell
you the world would be a very different
place if more businesses did because
it's basic saying if we just took 10%
and made sure it was allocated to people
and to countries that quite frankly need
it more than we do
it would redistribute wealth whilst
absolutely still protecting the
capitalist system that we found to be
the best way of working
you definitely hire a hippie with a
calculator we are not just six formers
messing around I think some people
assume that because we sometimes wear
t-shirts to work but what you wear does
not reflect on how hard you work it's
been a big tough challenge all of the
way it's been extremely enjoyable and
exciting too the way Richard does
business is admirable and for that I
have to give him and his partners credit
but there was still a burning question I
had to ask with such a strong business
ethos how did they justify selling a
majority share of their business to
coca-cola if you'd known me three years
ago and I've said Richard you got this
deal with coke Earl you could meet them
four times a year they waiting to run
the business they can give you thirty
million and I said Richard I'm gonna
give you the same day I'll give you
thirty million which one would you
choose coca-cola or Peter Jones all
after having seen you on Dragon's Den I
would definitely choose Coca Cola
definitely that's outrageous man you're
a tough negotiator and you definitely
wouldn't have extended the terms that
coca-cola did but I kind of liken it to
a little bit like I've got a nice
seriously famous health club chain and
Cadbury's invested my business was there
any of the three of you that thought I
don't want to do this without that money
coming in from coke we would have been a
business hugely retrenching we would
have had to make half the team redundant
we've had to cancel our international
expansion I feel like I'm interviewing
like a politician you're not answering
my question
what was the great vision of you say now
that we're all absolute so you were all
a hundred percent off it was it was a
very unusual deal that they did where
they would put in money but apps you
take a backseat like myself Adam and
John to keep full control of the company
even the hardened cynics would admit now
that we are absolutely more innocent
than we've ever been
we've pushed even further into our
sustainable agricultural projects we've
continued to funder the charities it's
mainly just asking their advice you know
they've been in business running one of
the world's most popular brands for 125
years in it in a very small way there
are things that could take them innocent
as well and so I really do think it's
been a relationship that's been has been
good for both parties have you got an
ultimate goal I want to get rich and die
poor the idea is I would love to sort of
you know get to be you know as strong as
you define actually but by the end of
life have you know given it weight Coca
Cola come to you knocking on the door
and saying guys we want to buy you out
is that conversation that you will have
hmm don't know actually
20 million each 50 million keep going
mate hundred each what price you put it
I don't know is the short answer when
you take a hundred million pound check
for your share now well you've just gone
from twenty to fifty to one hundred and
twenty seconds I'm going to hold that a
little bit further 100 million for your
share in innocent cash in the back of
the Maybach I'd have sweets my wife
unsurprisingly it was an indecisive
response from Ridgid but I felt had come
as close as possible to him admitting
he's in it for the money
even if he'll eventually give it all
away
spending time with Michelle Mon was both
enjoyable and intriguing
under her tough exterior I found someone
who is quite fragile not a trait you'd
open the associate with being an
entrepreneur but like many of us it's
that self doubt that drives her I'm no
happy with what I've achieved I do my
best you know and I can if you can't do
your best
and there's no point Richard Reid was a
tough nut to crack but now I understand
why he's such a success
he has very cleverly created a product
that harnesses his values my business
ethos is do something you love with
people that you love the way that you
can be proud of genuinely try and make
something better these are just two
inspiring ways to make millions every
entrepreneur has their own eclectic mix
of hard work luck skill and self belief
and there's one thing for sure we don't
readily take no for an answer
your job as the entrepreneur is to hear
the no and turn it into a yes I don't
just accept no I always say why why why
if I don't take risks every single day
life becomes boring
well Italy become the next victim of
Europe's debt crisis news nights on BBC
2 at 10:30
after comedy with Ramsay Nesbitt next
you